# Research Objective

In this paper, we aim to realize an interconnect simulator specialized for
application-aware dynamic interconnects to facilitate the research and
development of application-aware dynamic interconnects. Most interconnect
simulators proposed in the previous research\ [@Schneider2009; @Tikir2009;
@Hoefler2010; @Jo2015] are designed to study the behavior of static
interconnects. Therefore, packet flow is controlled based on static routing
algorithms in these simulators.

However, packet flow needs to be dynamically controlled based on the
communication patterns of applications for simulating application-aware
dynamic interconnects. Based on this necessity, the requirements for our
simulator are described as follows:

- _Support for application-aware dynamic routing_: The simulator should allow
  users to implement dynamic routing algorithms to mitigate load imbalance
  and improve utilization of the interconnect. In addition, the routing
  algorithms should be supplied with the communication patterns of
  applications and packet flow in the interconnect to make effective routing
  decisions.
- _Support for communication patterns of real-world applications_:
  Communication patterns of real-world HPC applications should be fed into the
  simulator to reproduce the characteristics of communication generated by
  real-world applications. To simulate the packet flow in the interconnect
  when an application is being executed, the simulator needs to predict the
  volume of point-to-point communication exchanged between computing nodes. In
  the actual computing scene, the traffic among computing nodes is generated by
  the processes executed on the computing nodes. Thus, some means and
  mechanisms to analyze the traffic volume of point-to-point communication
  exchanged between the processes from applications is essential. In this
  paper, applications that leverage MPI for inter-process communication are
  targeted.
- _Support for diverse cluster configurations_: The distribution of packet
  flow in the interconnect is determined by not only the routing algorithm but
  also the topology of the interconnect. In addition, job scheduling, node
  selection and process placement algorithms need to be considered. These
  parameters should be easily reconfigurable to allow users to perform a
  systematic investigation of diverse clusters.

Furthermore, the simulator should be designed to be lightweight and fast to
carry out a large number of simulations with different parameters in a
reasonable amount of time. If necessary, appropriate approximation should be
introduced to improve simulation performance.
